Shakshouka with Fetta


While it may be a little difficult to spell, the Shakshuka (Shakshouka) dish is extremely easy to prepare. Utilising basic ingredients including eggs, spices, tomatoes, onions and vegetables, this is a dish that’s full of protein, nutrients and of course, flavour. Simply meaning ‘a mixture’ in Arabic, Shakshuka is quite literally just that – a mixture of whatever you have left in the fridge. If you’re looking for a delicious and warm meal to keep you toasty during these cold winter nights, be sure to give this fantastic recipe a try!

Serves: 4
Prep time: 5 minutes
Cook time: 30 minutes

4 eggs						Herbs and spices:
2 red capsicums, diced				1 tsp paprika
1 fresh tomato, diced				1 tsp thyme
1 brown onion, diced				1 tsp oregano
1 garlic clove, crushed				1 tsp cumin
1/2 red onion, diced				1 tsp tumeric
800g tin of diced tomatoes			1 tsp chilli flakes
125g feta							Cracked black pepper
2 tbsp tomato paste					1 handful fresh mint
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil		1 handful coriander
1 x loaf of sourdough bread
1 splash of red wine

Method:
1.	Place red and brown onions into a deep saucepan and toss with olive oil.
2.	Add in diced capsicum, crushed garlic and freshly cut tomato. Toss to combine.
3.	Add in paprika, thyme, oregano, cumin, turmeric, chilli flakes and fresh coriander. Toss to combine.
4.	Crumble fetta over the mix.
5.	Pour tin of diced tomatoes into mix and stir thoroughly.
6.	Add the tomato paste and splash of red wine. Mix to combine.
7.	Allow to simmer on medium heat for 5-10 minutes, until mixture starts to reduce.
8.	Crack the eggs one at a time over the mixture.
9.	Cover pan with lid and allow mixture to simmer for 10-15 minutes, or until the eggs are cooked to your preference.
10.	Remove pan from heat and garnish with fresh mint and cracked pepper.
11.	Serve with sourdough bread.


Top Tips:
1	Are you a meat lover? If you simply cannot go without some meat in your dish, you can easily add some chorizo and/or chopped bacon to this recipe! Simply chop up 3 rashers of bacon (and/or slice up 2 chorizo sticks) and add in after Step 3, and mix for 1 minute. Follow the rest of the recipe and you’ve got a hearty dish that will hit the spot!
2	Prefer to have your eggs runny? Try simmering your Shakshuka for 5-7 minutes instead of the recommended 10 (or until they are cooked to your liking).
3	Have more time than expected?  Make your Shakshuka even more flavoursome by letting it simmer for 1 hour at Step 7, and 2 hours for Step 9 – the more time you allow for simmering, the more the dish’s liquid will reduce, resulting in intense flavour!
